User’s Guide for "Wandering in the Woods"

Introduction:-
Welcome to "Wandering in the Woods," an educational simulation/game designed for K-5 students. This program helps students learn about computation, computational thinking, math concepts, and computer science. Whether you're a teacher guiding a class or a student exploring the game on your own, this guide will help you get started with installing and using the program.

Installation Guide

System Requirements:
Operating System: Windows 10/11, macOS, or Linux
Python 3.x
Pygame Library

Step-by-Step Installation:

1. Install Python:
   Download Python 3.x from [python.org](https://www.python.org/downloads/).
   Follow the installation instructions specific to your operating system.
   Ensure you check the box that says "Add Python to PATH" during installation.

2. Install Pygame:
   Open a terminal or command prompt.
   Type the following command and press Enter:
     pip install pygame

3. Download the Game Files:
   Obtain the "Wandering in the Woods" game files from your teacher or download them from the provided link.

4. Run the Game:
   Navigate to the folder where the game files are saved.
   Open a terminal or command prompt in that folder.
   Run the game by typing:
     python main.py

Using the Program

Main Menu:
Upon launching the game, you’ll see the home screen with two options: Start and Exit.
  Start: Begins the game.
  Exit: Closes the program.

Gameplay Overview:

1. Grades K-2:
   The game presents a simple square grid with two characters.
   One character is controlled by the player using the keyboard, while the other moves randomly.
   The goal is to guide the characters to meet. Upon meeting, a celebratory screen appears, showing the number of moves taken.

2. Grades 3-5:
   Students can set the grid size (which can be rectangular) and choose the number of characters (2, 3, or 4).
   Characters start at student-selected positions and move according to game rules.
   Statistics such as the longest run without meeting and the average run are displayed after each round.

Game Controls:
Arrow Keys: Move the player-controlled character.
Space Bar: Pause/resume the game.
Exit Button: Exits the game and returns to the main menu.

Additional Features:
Background music plays during the game.
Sound effects accompany each movement and meeting of characters.
The game can be reset to try different scenarios and experiments.

Troubleshooting
Game Not Starting: Ensure Python and Pygame are correctly installed.
Slow Performance: Close other applications to free up system resources.
No Sound: Check the volume settings on your device and ensure your sound drivers are up to date.

Contact Information
For further assistance, please reach out to your teacher or consult the technical support resources provided by your school.

Enjoy exploring "Wandering in the Woods" and enhancing your computational thinking skills!